# Styling and Layout

## Stylesheets

In React Native, Stylesheets are a mechanism for defining and managing styles for your components. Stylesheets offer improved performance by optimizing the way styles are applied to components

- React Native provides the StyleSheet module for creating and managing styles.
- To create a stylesheet, you can use the StyleSheet.create() method, which accepts an object where keys are style names and values are style definitions.
- Styles defined using stylesheets are optimized and cached during the app's startup, resulting in better performance.
- **Using inline styles or dynamic styles may lead to re-renders and reduced performance**.
- Styles defined in stylesheets can be easily inspected and debugged

## Applying Styles

To apply styles from a stylesheet, use the `style` prop when rendering a component.

```jsx
<View style={styles.container}>
  <Text style={styles.text}>Styled Text</Text>
</View>
```

## Combining Styles

You can combine styles by passing an **array** of styles to the `style` prop

```jsx
<View style={[styles.container, { borderWidth: 1 }]}>
  <Text style={[styles.text, { fontWeight: 'bold' }]}>Bold Text</Text>
</View>
```

## Platform-Specific Styles

You can create platform-specific styles by using conditional statements within your stylesheet definitions, use the **Platform** module to define platform-specific styles

```jsx
import { Platform, StyleSheet } from 'react-native';

paddingTop: Platform.OS === 'android' ? StatusBar.currentHeight : 0
```

## Styling components

Styling components in React Native, including Text, Button, Pressable, and View, involves using various style properties

### Text

- color: Sets the text color.
- fontSize: Sets the font size.
- fontWeight: Specifies the font weight (e.g., 'bold').
- fontFamily: Defines the font family.
- textAlign: Aligns the text (e.g., 'left', 'center', 'right').

## Flexbox layout model

Flexbox is a powerful and flexible system for organizing and aligning elements in a predictable and efficient way

- You have containers (Views) that hold items (components).
- The container defines the layout properties, and the items are the elements inside the container.
- Flex Direction
  - The `flexDirection` property is used to specify the direction of the main axis for items inside the container.
  - It can have two values: row (default) or column.
  - Use row for a horizontal layout and column for a vertical layout.
- Justify Content
  - The `justifyContent` property defines how items are distributed along the main axis.
  - Common values include `flex-start`, `center`, `flex-end`, `space-between`, and `space-around`.
- Align Items
  - The `alignItems` property determines how items are aligned along the cross-axis.
  - Common values include `flex-start`, `center`, `flex-end`, `stretch`, and `baseline`.
- Flex Property
  - The `flex` property specifies how much space an item should take up relative to other items.
  - A higher `flex` value makes an item grow more than others.
- Flex Wrap
  - The `flexWrap` property controls whether items wrap to the next line when they don't fit in the container.
  - Values include `wrap` and `nowrap`.
- Flex Grow and Shrink
  - The `flexGrow` and `flexShrink` properties allow you to control how items grow and shrink to occupy available space.
- Self-Aligned Items
  - The `alignSelf` property is used to override the `alignItems` property for individual items.
